GIFT CARD MODULE
Table of Contents
Details
Why do we need Gift Card
Enable Module
How to work
Step 01: Add a Gift Card
Step 02: View Gift Card.
Step 03: Sell the Gift Card
Step 04: Gift Card Redeem

more deatails : https://help.storemate.cloud/docs/gift-card-module/

Details
It is a card that can be exchanged for a specified cash value of goods or services from a particular business, given as a gift.

Why do we need Gift Card
Gift cards build brand awareness.
Gift cards capture more holiday sales.
Gift cards enable the use of digital wallets.
Gift cards enable customer engagement.
Gift cards generate useful data.
Gift cards are safe and convenient.
Gift cards offer easy distribution
Enable Module
Update your subscription for Gift Card Module. (Contact Storemate Support)

How to work
Step 01: Add a Gift Card
Click on the add gift card. If you want to add a new gift card type, create a gift card


Fill in the details related to the card type here & Save.

Business Location – select your business location
Name -The name of the gift card
Value – The value of the gift card
 No Of cards – Number of cards expected to be issued
Voucher serial begin – Add the initial serial number of the card
Expires on – Add the expiration date
Unit – Mention it as one (pieces (pc (s))

Step 02: View Gift Card.
You can see a summary of all the gift cards you have added here


You can view the summary of the gift card via the action button



Step 03: Sell the Gift Card
You can sell gift cards for your customer using POS Screen.


Step 04: Gift Card Redeem
Add to the relevant item and click on the Discount button.


Scan your gift card code and select your gift card type


Then you can Update.


You click on the PAY button and settle the payment


You can show the Invoice preview and you can see the Gift card amount on the invoice.


NOTE:

Gift card profit or loss you can check under the view gift card option. and it will be affected your profit and loss also

You will need to note the cost of printing the gift card as your expense.