SHOPIFY
Table of Contents
What is the Shopify
Shopify module for Storemate
Options in the Shopify module
How to work
Enable Module
Product SYNC with a Shopify
Order sync with StoreMate POS
Order sync log
What is the Shopify
Shopify is a commerce platform that allows anyone to set up an online store and sell their products. Merchants can also sell their products in person with Shopify POS. (https://www.shopify.in/)

Shopify module for Storemate
This is a separate module for interconnecting your Shopify website and StoreMate inventory management software. you can connect product details including stock level as well as website orders also sync with StoreMate.

more details link : https://help.storemate.cloud/docs/shopify/

Options in the Shopify module
Product details sync from StoreMate POS to the Shopify site
Product Name
Price
Quantity
Category
Weight
Images
Description
Order details sync from Shopify site to StoreMate POS
Order date
Order Number
Customer details
Ordered product, qty, and price
Order discounts and coupons
Order Tax details
Order credit card payment
Order status
Payment status
Other Option
Auto and manual sync option of orders
Order sync log
Shopify order identification method
Shopify order filtering option
How to work
Enable Module
Step 01: Update your subscription for Shopify Module. (Contact Storemate Support)

Step 02: Generate the Shopify API key from your Shopify site. Get Shopify API details from, 

Shopify -> Manage private apps -> Create new private app

Step 03: Update the keys on the StoreMate Shopify module.

Home ->Shopify -> API Settings -> update keys


Step 04: Update product sync settings.

Home ->Shopify -> API Settings -> product sync settings

Using this screen you can enable the product details you want to sync with the Shopify website. Stock count is enabled in default.


Step 05: Update order sync details.

Home ->Shopify -> API Settings -> Order sync settings.

Cut off date: The order is synced up to the cutoff date.

You need to match which Shopify status is in sync with stormeate status.

Final: Stock deducted and updated as the finalized invoice

Draft: stock not deducted and update as the draft bill

Quotation: Order sync as the quotations


Product SYNC with a Shopify
Category sync

Home -> Shopify module -> Shopify -> category sync

Category sync: you can sync the StoreMate product category and Shopify category. This is not a regular sync option you can update this when you change or add a category on storemate pos.

Product sync

Home -> Shopify module -> Shopify -> update or sync all

Update: you can sync product details with changes. This is not updated on new products.

Sync all: when you run all sync it will update all product changes as well as the new product also.

Note: do not close the sync process until it’s complete.

Order sync with StoreMate POS

Home–>. Shopify module -> Shopify -> order sync

Shopify order is synced with StoreMate POS. The Shopify module checks all orders up to the cutoff date and updates the Shopify website.

Order sync log
If there is any issue with the sync process you can check with this screen.